Second Samuel, chapter 15, verse 1, tells us that Absalom, who was trying to usurp the throne, had a royal chariot built for himself.
It was pulled by majestic horses, 50 men ran ahead of that chariot.
Now, as impressive as that chariot and writer may have seemed to many,
compared to the celestial chariot mentioned in the Ezekiel chapter 1, Absalom's chariot would be a sluggish minuscule rattletrap.
As we know, that chariot mentioned in the Ezekiel chapter 1 represents the heavenly part of Jehovah's organization,
who is the writer of this chariot, Jehovah himself.
Why is he depicted this way? Well, Jehovah lovingly controls the movements of his organization to accomplish his will and purpose.
No wonder Ezekiel chapter 1, verse 18, describes the rims of the wheels of the chariot as having eyes all around, all seeing Jehovah directs everything.
What is the speed of Jehovah's chariot? Absalom's chariot may have been able to reach speeds up to 45 miles an hour, the speed of a racehorse.
But what about Jehovah's chariot? Well, in the Bible, verse 14, chapter 1, it describes its movements in comparison with flashes of lightning.
Now, a flash of lightning travels at 186,000 miles per second to speed of light. But if we think about it, Jehovah's chariot's lot faster than that.
In fact, we could say it travels at the speed of thought, at the speed of Jehovah's thought, and obviously that would be immeasurably fast.
Now, we can't see into the invisible realm and see how Jehovah is using the heavenly part of his organization with lightning speed to accomplish his will and purpose.
But we can see how fast things are moving in the visible part of Jehovah's organization.
And that only makes sense in it, because the earthly part is closely related to the heavenly and is actually reflection of the heavenly part of Jehovah's organization.
Now, the foregoing discussion brings us to what Brother Cook mentioned, our updates to fast moving projects that Jehovah obviously is directing.
And we're going to get brought up to speed. You like the way I use that, right?
We're up to speed since we're talking about moving, but things are happening and Jehovah certainly is directing matters.
And as mentioned, we're going to have an update regarding the audio video facility being built at Ramapo, New York.
Now, you probably recall that it's being built on property that the organization already owned.
And it's conveniently located only two miles from our World Headquarters facility at Warwick.
And a very interesting side point, the governing body tried for several years really hard to sell this property with absolutely no results.
Then we came to realize this is ideal property to build a much needed facility that can consolidate onto one site, the functions currently being done on many different properties.
One site to produce our audio, video, and beautiful artwork.
So just another example of Jehovah's eye seeing things. In fact, we think of his words at Psalm 32. Please go there.
Psalm 32. And verse number eight, Jehovah says, I will give you insight and instruct you in the way you should go.
I will give you advice with my eye upon you. Jehovah lovingly, obviously directing things.
But I'm sure you'd like to see this video now that will give you an update on what is happening there at Ramapo. So enjoy the video.
The specific purpose of the Ramapo project is to bring all media facilities under one roof.
As a project begins, we always want things to move fast. But sometimes the reality is that it doesn't happen as fast as we would like it to.
It's been several years of some pretty dynamic planning and we've seen a lot of twists and turns and changes along the way.
We've had a number of challenges on the Ramapo project.
In the state of New York, there's only a certain season where you can take trees down.
We're only allowed to remove trees between November and the end of March.
The town board approved the special permit for us to be able to cut the trees.
However, when we went to exercise that permit, we realized that another agency still had to give their permission for us to be able to use it, which we didn't get.
Originally, we had planned about 12 weeks to do all of this work.
And that 12 weeks included using mechanized equipment.
If that wasn't accomplished, we would be waiting an entire year to be able to cut those trees.
Well, the windows started closing from 12 weeks to 8 weeks, all the way down to 6 weeks.
And then somehow something in the permitting language opened our eyes to a new possibility that allowed us to take the trees down in a different way.
We got permission to cut the trees, but we had to cut the trees all by hand.
And in four weeks, we used an outside contractor to take down all the trees that we needed.
Two weeks early of the end of the tree cutting season.
Every single day, there's still much work to be done to get us the needed permits.
The design is continuing. The estimating for the project is continuing. That hasn't stopped. That hasn't slowed up one bit.
Because of some of the delays that we experienced, there was a need to reassign some of our brothers and sisters
within the organization.
We had these willing volunteers, they were skilled, they were trained, they were willing to do whatever was needed.
But we just didn't have the work for them at the time.
We were able to communicate with different departments in the branch, at headquarters.
And it just so happened that many of these departments had been praying for additional help.
The brothers had a meeting with us and they said, we know you're not 100% busy, like you want to be.
We'll be giving a number of you new assignments.
Most of you, you'll go out for a while while we get our permits and come back.
They said that I would be going into CDE, and I didn't even know what that was.
Computer department engineering, and I thought, that's a way above me. I'm a construction girl.
But actually, I've loved it. I've learned so much.
And the team that I've worked with, I've gotten close to them. And it's been a wonderful change.
It's really shown us that Jo is going to take care of us.
What it has to be at Ramapo was one of the most amazing privileges we've ever had.
But we're still working for Jehovah and right in the center of his organization.
These brothers and sisters are real men and women of faith, helping to advance Kingdom interest in all these other areas.
Obviously, when we hit some of these points where maybe we were waiting on approvals, the work did not stop.
The time has allowed us to work with the Bethel departments, to work with the governing body committees,
to work with our outside expert audio video design teams.
And so because of that, the buildings themselves have changed.
It was looked into how flexible spaces be created, and also how could some of these spaces be shared,
maybe between different departments, to make the best use of the property that we have?
The art department will be in the same building with the other aspects of media, the audio part and the video part,
so that when we need to collaborate, it'll be much easier to work together so that we can make the very best possible product.
It's a state-of-the-art audio, video, and art production facility.
The process of designing that and getting it to stay ahead of not only the ever-changing technologies that we see in the industry,
but also the needs for the organization. It's a dynamic process.
The facility has been designed and will be constructed in such a way that if modifications need to be made later to keep up with technology,
we won't have to deconstruct the building in order to implement those changes.
We've developed beautiful studios that will be functional not only now, but also for future projects.
One exciting feature of the Media Center will be the use of video walls for virtual production.
In fact, we've already begun filming with this new technology here at Patterson.
With these video walls, we can create digitally backgrounds that can be used to give the appearance that we are shooting it in a foreign location.
The governing body made it very clear that they're focused with the spirituality of those who involved in our productions.
If the friends have to be off-site for a long period of time filming, it can really disrupt their spiritual routine.
Virtual Reduction will allow us to reduce the need to travel or to even work hours that could interfere with spiritual activities.
There's some circumstances that arise that can sometimes limit our ability to travel to another location,
but with the use of the video wall, we won't be stopped. Video production will continue in the studio.
Now we'll be able to custom make some backgrounds that actually look like Bible lands.
And we're very confident with Jehovah's blessing that this new state-of-the-art facility will result in tremendous savings, efficiency, as we continue to produce beautiful video artwork to the benefit of the Brotherhood.
But now that video that you saw was actually a while back a little time ago,
we have some late-breaking news events to share with you since then.
When you saw in the video the trees cut down, they were just lying haphazardly, weren't they?
With snow on the top, but since then, contractors have been very busy removing the trees, taking them out, clearing the site and preparation for other work that will come,
and all of this preceding this huge construction project that is looming just ahead.
So we captured some of that work, and we also are bringing you up to date with a fly-over video clip.
So we want to show you this now, so it'll bring you even further up to date as to how things are looking.
So you saw the trees being removed, you saw carving out the entrance there in the hillside, so a lot of exciting things are happening.
Now, soon contractors are going to begin blasting away large underground rock formations to prepare the site for further site work.
And according to our current time schedule, and I think you'll be interested to know this, at the late summer of 2024, just a few months from now,
we planned Jehovah Willing with Jehovah's Blessing. We're going to call in many more volunteers to help us to move this project forward speedily.
But dear brothers and sisters, please remember to pray for Jehovah's Blessings on these efforts.
But now, as we said, we had another update, and that's concerning the exciting project that is going on in Australia.
And as you know, it's the series of dramas entitled The Good News According to Jesus. Please enjoy this video update.
Now we'll be able to custom make some backgrounds that actually look like Bible lands.
And so the Good News According to Jesus project is the perfect candidate for the use of virtual production.
A video while will be installed and ready for use at the Australasia branch in early 2024.
There's many formats out there in the world of Jesus' life and how it's depicted.
But how film is so accurate, the research and effort that's gone into it and has made it, so close to the Bible, it's going to make such a difference.
They're going to say Jesus what he was truly like. They're going to affect hearts and it's really going to help them to see Jehovah as well.
As we've been working with The Good News According to Jesus project, we've run into a few challenges to say the least.
Right from the start, we had fires, we've had floods, we've had a pandemic.
Due to a number of restrictions that were taking place at the time, things were delayed.
They even came a point where it just completely starts.
We did wonder how we were going to be able to produce this video and the time frames that we needed to do so.
We had to pick and choose which scenes that we had to shoot first because construction was trying to keep up with our film schedule.
So trying to manage those two together was quite difficult.
Some of the challenges also are depicting miracles. How are you going to depict some of the various illnesses and diseases?
How to film scenes like the miraculous catch of fish and Jesus walking on water in a realistic way?
It's a weighty responsibility, but there's also the amazing joy of being able to learn more about Jesus just through the process of trying to put it on film.
The Bible accounts that we are trying to depict involve a lot of animals.
We know it was part of the culture at the time, so we're really trying to incorporate that into this production.
We've had donkeys, shape, pigeons, and even camels here at the branch on set.
They need to be trained to work with actors, trained to be ridden. They need to be familiarized with the sets.
You actually start to see a bond established between the animals and the actors.
Fortunately, many of our brothers and sisters at work in farmlands and rural Australia had many of these animals that they were willing to make available for us.
There's a sister in a nearby rural congregation that has volunteered to help raise the pigeons that we're going to use in the temple scenes and other areas.
The shape loved to be around kids, and I love to be around the cost members, and it really does make a difference.
All of those animals essentially lend themselves to the realism of the sets that we're in and help bring the Bible accounts to life.
So one particular episode required the Judean wilderness.
After reviewing a few options here within the country of Australia, we saw that it wasn't as feasible as we would have liked to put it to be.
After presenting the information to our brothers in oversight, we got a response that we didn't anticipate.
They came back asking, what about Israel?
A small crew traveled to Israel and actually filmed in the real Judean wilderness.
The local branch office provided support.
A number of scenes were filmed, and now when reviewing the material, we see Jehovah blessing that arrangement.
The backlog is a huge film set.
It has five historical areas.
We have the temple area and the temple slab, Jerusalem area.
There's Kena, or Galilee, and then there's Capernaum, including a little beach area, and Nazareth.
The backlog has roads, mounds, just landscapes so that we can have a variety of filming.
It was designed in a way where you can point the camera anywhere.
So it just helps you immerse yourself into the story and the life of Jesus.
This is a world that you've never seen before.
What's different about those sets there in Australia than we're typically using here is they have to last a lot longer.
To cover the entire span of the gospel accounts requires many, many years of recordings.
The brothers and sisters, they've shown amazing skill, and they've worked through some very challenging conditions.
We've had heat, we've had rain, it's been dusty out here, it's been muddy at times, but they've worked through all of it.
And whilst the end product is this beautiful set, it's going to bring the ministry of Jesus Christ alive in an incredibly realistic way.
While construction was going, a contractor came in to the back lot to see the construction brothers.
He spoke to one of the brothers and tears and asked, what was this all about?
And we explained what we were trying to achieve.
And with tears, he said, I come from Israel, and this looks just like my home.
Seeing someone who has no idea about this project to come in and see how accurate it was really shows me how Jehovah is really looking after this project.
It isn't any one of us that have made this a success. It's Jehovah the whole way.
As we study these Bible accounts and figure out ways to bring them to life on the screen, it's teaching us to get into the motivations of who these people were.
Our goal is to take them from being just characters in black and white on the printed page into real people that you're going to know and love for the rest of your life.
Roll camera, roll audio! Action!
When we recount the tremendous amount of work that is being done to visually portray, depict the gospels of Jesus' life and ministry were thrilled.
They were absolutely amazed.
And all of this work at investment is not just for one convention drama.
In fact, this production sets us up for convention dramas for years to come in the future.
And you're going to truly enjoy them as they're rolled out.
But now, when we think about these dramas, these episodes, you probably want to know, when? Am I going to get to see the first episode? When?
Well, you'll be happy to know that next year, 2024, we're going to have them as portrayed into the convention program as two dramas.
That is, episode one.
We'll be two dramas, the 2024 convention, the regional and the special conventions you will enjoy them indeed.
In fact, we've prepared a preview of those two convention dramas.
And I think you'll enjoy this a short preview.
I know it's really early to show you something for the 2024 convention.
And I hope I don't get into trouble with the governing body for showing this prematurely.
Just kidding.
I hope you don't think I'm that stupid.
It is with the governing body's full blessing and approval that we show you.
So please enjoy this governing body approved teaser for these two dramas.
Seeing that many have undertaken to compile an account of the facts, I resolved also, because I have traced all things from the start with accuracy.
To not be afraid, Mary, you will become pregnant and give birth to a son and you ought to name him Jesus.
Let your hover be praised, the God of Israel, because he has turned his attention to his people and has brought them deliverance.
For look, I'm declaring to you good news.
For today, there was born to you in David City, a Savior, who is Christ, the Lord.
Look, Jehovah's Slave Girl, may it happen to me according to your declaration.
The true light that gives light to every sort of man was about to come into the world.
The dramas over the next several years will have this kind of realism and will truly bring the gospel account to life, the good news according to Jesus.
Now, what you saw was just a two and a half minute teaser, video, little video.
But as we mentioned, we're going to, and that was just for episode one, but we are actively, speedily, fast, movingly, preparing more episodes.
In fact, you'll be happy to know that we're working right now on the next four episodes, after the two that the one really teaser of the one you saw, four more are being worked on.
And episode three is almost totally finished. We've almost got episode three done.
The governing body has already been reviewing episode one and an early edition of episode two.
And how powerful, indeed, they are. And I know personally, I can say that I've been inspired, I've been motivated, and even brought to the point of tears several times and other governing body brothers and helpers were affected similarly.
The realism, the impact, the power is absolutely amazing.
Well, we're confident that you appreciate receiving these two very important updates concerning significant fast-moving projects.
And the governing body wants to keep you fully informed. They really want you to be up to date because we need your prayers, we need your support, and we want you to know what is happening.
And we're confident that when your hope is blessing, then this is going to be something that's going to benefit the spiritual brotherhood in a tremendous, a profound way.
And we were just so anxious to be able to give you more of this, even though we gave you what we could now.
But some might ask, why are we embarking on two projects like this when the New World is so close?
We might not even finish one of them, the end may come. Well, we just don't know, do we? We don't know exactly when the end is going to come.
Here's an illustration. How many carefully selected smooth stones did David take out when he went to fight Goliath? He took five, didn't he?
I mean, did he need one? He just didn't know, did he? So he was prepared, whatever it took. Well, the same way we don't know when the end is going to come.
Now, here's another thought, food for thought, could not these projects, if needed, be finished after the Great Tribulation and then used powerfully in the New World.
And thinking of the good news according to Jesus' episodes, would they not be wonderful tools to teach resurrected ones about God's Son? Well, only Jehovah knows. Time will tell.
But what did the watchtower say some years ago about the activity of Jehovah's people right when the end would come?
Here's what it's saying. Let me read you this quote. It said, the arrival of the Lord Jesus to execute judgment will come at a complete surprise even to Jehovah's people.
For it will no doubt find them at their busiest time of activity. So we're going to be surprised. We're going to be very busy when the end comes.
And we say, if the end comes before we finish either one of these projects, then we say, Hallelujah. Praise God. But we're going to be busy right up until the end.
Jehovah with his help and his support. And you think of a scripture in 2nd Kings, chapter 13, verse 18, Jehovah was not at all pleased with King Joe Ash.
Remember, he took the arrows. He struck the ground three times. And then he stopped. Why? Because Jehovah does not like and he doesn't bless a lack of zeal and enthusiasm.
So we want to make sure we're zealously working right up until the end comes. Well, in conclusion, we say with your continued support and prayers and our behalf, fast moving, amazing things are happening in the earthly part of Jehovah's organization.
And we give all thanks to Jehovah that great celestial chariot writer. We give thanks to him. And we give thanks to the heavenly part of his organization.
How we appreciate the direction we are receiving by means of Holy Spirit.